Although it is well known that team performance influences strategic decision making, little is known about its impact on ascriptive inequality. This study proposes a performance effect on racial bias: higher team performance reduces managers' performance pressure and therefore leads to more managerial bias in the subsequent decisions. I find strong evidence for this proposition using a fine-grained data set from the National Basketball Association. In this highly competitive industry, team performance is positively associated with coaches' subsequent exercise of racial bias: players experience more favorable treatment from same-race coaches after their teams win games. This study shows an important relationship between performance feedback and racial bias and suggests that even in highly competitive industries, managerial bias may persist in high-performing teams and organizations.
A variety of experiments have demonstrated that people's choices among gambles differ according to whether the gamble is to be played just once (the unique case) or multiple times (the repeated case). The reason for this difference appears to be that people are acting in each case so as to increase the likelihood that the chosen alternative will leave them better off than the nonchosen alternative. This paper explores four themes that bear on the difference between unique and repeated gambles. The first traces the historical and theoretical role of weighted averaging in risky choice. The second defends the usefulness of probability-based rules for choices involving aspiration levels. The third presents the idea that choices under risk may reflect dual criteria, one based in weighted averaging and the other based in stochastic control. The fourth challenges the conventional criteria by which choices are judged to be rational or irrational.
This paper studies how CEO pay and its composition is shaped by strategic factors related to the firm's capacity to generate rents and value, the uncertainty of its resource advantage, and the competitive interaction between firm stakeholders and top management. This is done using an analytical framework in which the CEO and other firm stakeholders interact over the firm's resource surplus as utility-maximizing claimants based on their relative bargaining power while providing shareholders their market-based required return. Results from the model yield a number of cogent strategic insights and predictions on the causal interplay between CEO pay, firm growth and risk characteristics, stakeholder management, corporate strategy (e.g., offshoring production), and behavioral biases such as CEO optimism and overconfidence.
What is the interrelationship among formal institutions, social networks, and new venture growth? Drawing on the theory of institutional polycentrism and social network theory, we examine this question using data on 637 entrepreneurs from four different countries. We find the confluence of weak and inefficient formal institutions to be associated with a larger number of structural holes in entrepreneurial social networks. While the effect of this institutional order on the revenue growth of new ventures is negative, a network's structural holes have a positive effect on revenue growth. Furthermore, the positive effect of structural holes on revenue growth is stronger in an environment with a more adverse institutional order (i.e., weaker and more inefficient institutions). The contributions and implications of these findings are discussed.
Perspective taking and empathic concern (empathy) have each been proposed as constructive approaches to social relationships. However, their potential distinctions, limitations, and consequences in task contexts are not well understood. We meta-analytically examined 304 independent samples to uncover unique effects of perspective taking and empathic concern on important work-related outcomes. We develop and test a contingency model of those effects, based on three facets of psychological interdependence: outcome, hierarchical (or power asymmetry), and social category (or in-group/out-group distinctions). Results revealed perspective taking and empathic concern to have positive impacts on being supportive of others, but the effects of empathic concern were stronger. In contrast, perspective taking was an asset and empathy was a liability for capturing value in strategic interactions (e.g., negotiations). Effects of perspective taking and empathic concern were differentially contingent on psychological interdependence. The impact of perspective taking, but not of empathic concern, was attenuated or reversed under negative outcome interdependence; perspective-taking leads to advantage taking in competitive contexts. Perspective taking was particularly beneficial when the actor had high power, but empathic concern's benefits were independent of hierarchy. Finally, social dissimilarity had no detectable impact on the effects of perspective taking or empathic concern, contrary to our theorizing. Overall results suggest two key conclusions. First, perspective taking and empathic concern have powerful effects on work-related outcomes. Second, each construct has its own distinctive and predictable impacts. We conclude by offering practical suggestions for improving workplace interactions through perspective taking and empathic concern.
Previous literature addressing job performance over time notes that past performance can affect future performance and that individuals often have distinct latent performance trajectories. However, no research to date has modeled these 2 aspects of job performance in tandem. Drawing on previous literature, the authors note that current performance may act as performance feedback, influencing future performance directly (i.e., autoregression), and that individuals differ in their performance trajectories due to individual-difference factors (i.e., latent trajectories). The authors demonstrate an autoregressive latent trajectory (ALT) model to show how both autoregressive and latent trajectory parameters may be incorporated in modeling job performance over time. Also discussed are the implications of the ALT model for future studies examining job performance longitudinally.
This research examined whether differences among job incumbents in their task ratings could be attributed to systematic as well as random variation. Data collected from 83 respondents showed that there was a significant degree of interrater agreement regarding task importance but not for ratings of task time spent. Moreover, measures of job context were significantly correlated with ratings of time spent but not task importance. These results suggest that within-job variation among raters can have both systematic and random components. Thus, practitioners should collect data on the job context as well as on incumbents' demographic characteristics and experience. Personnel practices based on task analyses may need to be examined to ensure that they are compatible with local variation in the job.
The study examined the activities of nascent entrepreneurs in Wisconsin and the United States between 1992 and 1993. The researchers found that:  1. **Started a Business**: Nascent entrepreneurs who started a business were more aggressive in making their businesses real by undertaking various activities such as seeking financial support, forming a legal entity, organizing a team, buying facilities and equipment, and devoting full-time to the business. 2. **Gave Up**: Those who gave up on starting a business pursued initial start-up activities aggressively but eventually decreased their efforts and ceased start-up activities. This group may have had the wisdom to test their ideas before investing too much time or resources. 3. **Still Trying**: Nascent entrepreneurs still trying to start a business undertook fewer activities, focusing more on internal start-up processes (e.g., saving money and preparing a plan) rather than making the business real to others.  Key findings:  * 48% of nascent entrepreneurs started a business within six to 18 months. * 20% gave up on starting a business. * Almost a third were still trying to establish a firm. * Individuals who started businesses undertook more activities and acted with greater intensity than those who did not start a business.  Implications:  * Nascent entrepreneurs should aggressively pursue opportunities in the short-term to quickly learn whether they are worthy of start-up or not. * Devoting time and effort to undertaking necessary start-up activities is crucial for success. * The behaviors of nascent entrepreneurs can be identified and differentiated based on their ability to successfully create new ventures.  Future research directions:  * Identifying specific behaviors appropriate for certain new venture conditions. * Generating contingency information to inform entrepreneurship practice, education, and public policy.
We examine how organizational practices making an economic evaluation of time salient, such as hourly pay, can lead people to spend less time on uncompensated work-volunteering. Using nationally representative survey data, in Study 1 we showed that, with other factors that might affect time decisions controlled, people paid by the hour were both less likely to volunteer and spent less time volunteering than counterparts who were not paid hourly. Study 2 showed that having people calculate their hourly wage was associated with decreased willingness to volunteer and that this experimental manipulation only affected people not paid by the hour.
Due to network effects and switching costs in platform markets, entrants generally must offer revolutionary functionality to win substantial market share. We explore a second entry path that does not rely upon Schumpeterian innovation: platform envelopment. Through envelopment, a provider in one platform market can enter another platform market, and combine its own functionality with that of the target in a multi‐platform bundle that leverages shared user relationships. Envelopers capture market share by foreclosing an incumbent's access to users; in doing so, they harness the network effects that previously had protected the incumbent. We present a typology of envelopment attacks based on whether platform pairs are complements, weak substitutes, or functionally unrelated and we analyze conditions under which these attack types are likely to succeed.
This research examined the relationship between employee personality and psychological contract type, perceptions of contract breach, and feelings of contract violation. In general, personality characteristics (extraversion, conscientiousness, neuroticism, self-esteem, equity sensitivity, and locus of control) were related to reported contract type. They also tended to predict perceptions of contract breach and to moderate the relationship between those perceptions and feelings of contract violation. Both contract type and feelings of violation were associated with job satisfaction, organizational commitment, and intentions to quit.
We investigated how people manage boundaries to negotiate the demands between work and home life. We discovered and classified four types of boundary work tactics (behavioral, temporal, physical, and communicative) that individuals utilized to help create their ideal level and style of work-home segmentation or integration. We also found important differences between the generalised state of work-home conflict and boundary violations, which we define as behaviours, events, or episodes that either breach or neglect the desired work-home boundary. We present a model based on two qualitative studies that demonstrates how boundary work tactics reduce the negative effects of work-home challenges.
While much research has studied corporate management of stakeholders, this research focuses on the capacity of stakeholders to influence firms. Using a grounded theory research design, we draw on a comparative analysis of the relations between two neighbouring communities in the Peruvian highlands and the mining project that affects them. Our analysis suggests that control of resources and structural configurations are insufficient for explaining divergent actions and influence capacity, and highlights the role played by factors that we refer to as community vigour and the community’s pool of knowledge. We argue that these factors explain a community’s ability to develop an informed and shared interpretation of the situation in relation to firms and, therefore, to identify and carry out actions that will be more likely to influence firms to the community’s satisfaction. Thus, community vigour and pool of knowledge are additional sources of influence capacity. These findings contribute to the literature on stakeholder influence by providing a conceptual model that explains variance in stakeholder influence capacity that theories of resource dependence, structural position or network centrality do not fully explain.
The two perspectives of strategy process most firmly established in the literature—strategic choice and ecology—assume the same about system dynamics: negative feedback processes driving successful systems (individual organizations or populations of organizations) toward predictable equilibrium states of adaptation to the environment. This paper proposes a third perspective, that of complex adaptive systems. The framework is provided by the modern science of complexity: the study of nonlinear and network feedback systems, incorporating theories of chaos, artificial life, self-organization and emergent order. Here system dynamics are characterized by positive and negative feedback as systems coevolve far from equilibrium, in a self-organizing manner, toward unpredictable long-term outcomes.
Extant research offers relatively little insight into the organizational design correlates of entrepreneurship in established firms. We argue on theoretical grounds that the same organizational designs support the realization as well as the discovery of opportunities. Specifically, decentralized structures are associated with opportunity realization as well as discovery, and this effect is reinforced by formalization. Decentralization gives managers the discretion and autonomy needed to recognize and realize opportunities, while formalization enables the standardization and codification of actions and processes. To test these ideas, we use a data-set based on paired responses from 474 Danish firms operating in several industries for our analyses. We find that decentralization and formalization have direct, positive, and significant associations with opportunity realization. We also address how these organizational design variables are related to opportunity discovery. We find similar effects. We discuss the theoretical and practical implications of our reasoning and results, such as implications for the idea in the innovation and organizational learning literatures that optimal performance over time requires that firms either vacillate between organizational designs or adopt ambidextrous designs.
This study used path analysis to test a model that posits that relevant personality traits will have both direct relationships with counterproductive work behaviors (CPBs) and indirect relationships to CPBs through the mediating effects of job satisfaction. Based on a sample  of 141 customer service employees, results generally supported the hypothesized model for both boss- and self-rated CPBs. Agreeableness had a direct relationship with interpersonal counterproductive work behaviors (CPB-I); Conscientiousness had a direct relationship with organizational counterproductive work behaviors (CPB-O); and, job satisfaction had a direct relationship to both CPB-I and CPB-O. In addition, job satisfaction partially mediated the relationship between Agreeableness and both CPB-O and CPB-I. Overall, results show that personality traits differentially predict CPBs and that employees' attitudes about their jobs explain, in part, these personality–behavior associations.
Despite the prevalence of governmental action devised to foster firms and industries, the link between industrial policy (IP) and competitive advantage has received scant attention in strategic management. I propose a model where such a link is mediated by the accumulation and churning of local resources and capabilities. I also introduce the concept of support-adjusted sustainable competitive advantage (SASCA), which occurs if a firm's observed performance is superior to the expected performance of competitors had they received the same array of policies. I argue that achieving SASCA through IP is a difficult endeavor and requires the interplay of three conditions: insertion in global production networks, geographical specificity, and governmental capability. Thus, the model expands the potential determinants of competitive advantage into the context of governmental intervention.
The interpersonal network structure of an organization directly influences the diffusion and recombination of ideas and can thus facilitate or impede organizational learning. Most interpersonal networks have 'hubs'-individuals who have significantly more connections than does the average member. This raises important questions about how hubs influence organizational learning outcomes. Does the presence of hubs improve or impair performance? What happens if hubs forget or misrepresent information that is transmitted through the network? Using simulation models, we find that moderately hubby networks outperform both very hubby and democratic networks. We also find that moderate amounts of information omission or misrepresentation can be surprisingly beneficial to performance, though the patterns of their effects are strikingly different.
This paper examines the allocation of inventive effort in complex product systems. I argue that complex product systems, e.g., personal computers (PCs), are distinguished by functional interaction among several components, each guided by a relatively autonomous bundle of technical and economic characteristics. I try to explore whether the dynamics of such interactions between components of complex product systems can help us understand changes in the relative allocation of inventive effort. I advance and empirically test three hypotheses: (1) emergence of component constraints (bottlenecks) in product systems will trigger research and development (R&D) investment to resolve the constraints; (2) slack component firms have a strong incentive to invest in resolving component constraints; and (3) the incentive of slack component firms to invest in resolving component constraints is increasing in their prior sunk R&D investments in slack components. In sum, I argue that interactions between components in a product system conditions the R&D incentives of firms and also that the incentives are increasing in their prior investments or capabilities. Using product reviews from technical journals, I trace the constraint components in the PC from 1981 to 1998 and attempt to predict shifts in the allocation of inventive effort in the subsequent period. The empirical results strongly support all three hypotheses. This study highlights the paradoxical effect of modularity in complex product systems. Modular design architectures, while contributing to accelerating the pace of technical change, also tend to limit the economic benefits of firms' component R&D efforts, especially when different components technologies are progressing at different rates. This often creates an impetus to enlarge the scope of firm R&D activities beyond the component product markets that firms operate in. Other implications for R&D decision making are discussed.
One hundred ninety-three new PhD students provided data on entry to their doctoral programs and again 9 months later. This longitudinal design was used to extend the socialization literature by testing the influence of newcomer involvement on socialization, controlling for newcomer perceptions on entry, and allowing for a dynamic view of socialization stages. Individuals who had collected information that they perceived as realistic, who had attended the same institution for their undergraduate degree, and who had past research experience were more involved in their doctoral programs, were more engaged in doctoral research, had less role conflict, felt more accepted, and were more productive as measured by objective outcomes. In addition, those individuals who were actively involved in their doctoral program were better accommodated and had greater productivity. Accommodation variables predicted commitment, and activity measures predicted submissions.
This study found mixed support for the hypothesis that the difference in criterion-related validity between unstructured and structured employment interviews is due solely to the greater reliability of structured interviews. Using data from prior meta-analyses, this hypothesis was tested in 4 data sets by using standard psychometric procedures to remove the effects of measurement error in interview scores from correlations with rated job performance and training performance. In the 1st data set, support was found for this hypothesis. However, in a 2nd data set structured interviews had higher true score correlations with performance ratings, and in 2 other data sets unstructured interviews had higher true score correlations. We also found that averaging across 3 to 4 independent unstructured interviews provides the same level of validity for predicting job performance as a structured interview administered by a single interviewer. Practical and theoretical implications are discussed.
There have been increasing calls for greater outside directors to be more aware and informed about the firm's decisions and decision-making process. If outsiders are more informed, it is presumed that they will work more closely with the CEO, and as a result, positively influence firm performance. This research examined individual outside directors' awareness of one prominent aspect of the CEO's activity, namely the CEO's strategic decision style. We found that the outside director's awareness of the CEO's decision style was positively related to financial profitability and negatively related to financial risk after controlling for industry, organizational size, profit orientation, board leadership, and proportion of insiders. In addition, we found that the CEO's tenure was negatively related to outsider awareness, but this relationship was stronger in non-profit organizations and situations where the CEO did not chair the board. Implications of the findings for future research and application are discussed.
Temporary organizations are known to provide flexibility for industries that rely on them, but we know little about their implications for how work is accomplished and coordinated. In this paper, I propose that common portrayals of temporary organizations as ephemeral and unstable are inaccurate: Temporary organizations are in fact organized around structured role systems whose nuances are negotiated in situ. This paper analyzes one type of temporary organization, film projects, exploring the way in which roles both organize immediate work and maintain continuity across different projects. On each film set, role expectations are communicated through practices of enthusiastic thanking, polite admonishing, and role-oriented joking, which enable crew members to learn and negotiate role structures. Two important structural characteristics of film projects provide the organizational context within which coordination takes place: interorganizational career progression and projects as temporary total institutions. By showing how these structural elements and role enactments support one another, this work generates a more complete understanding of the conditions that affect coordination, including role duration, expectations of future interaction, and visibility of work.
A series of Strategic Management Journal studies have debated the extent to which business-unit, corporate parent, and industry effects explain variance in firm performance. Despite evidence that the industry life cycle impacts competition and performance, the life cycle concept has yet to be incorporated into the firm vs. industry debate. Building on ideas from systems theory, we use longitudinal data from 1,957 firms in 49 industries to examine the relative importance of business-unit, corporate parent, and industry effects during the growth, maturity, and decline stages of the industry life cycle. We find that corporate parent and industry effects increase as industries move through the life cycle while business-unit effects decrease between maturity and decline. Thus, the life cycle concept should be incorporated within the firm vs. industry debate.
This study investigates the differences in the perceived approaches to productivity improvement between domestic-owned and Western-owned companies in Singapore. Although the differences found in the scores are small, which may imply support for the culture-free thesis, analysis of the pattern of significant correlations between the two samples suggests otherwise. There is a sharp contrast in the pattern of significant interrelationships.
Reputations are socially constructed labels that provide representations (or schema), which organize our images of another person. We look at how reputations influence negotiations by examining their impact on negotiator cognitions, behaviors, and subsequent outcomes. We randomly paired relative novices with relative experts to negotiate over email, telling half the novices that their counterparts were experts in distributive negotiation (i.e., the art of claiming value). Findings supported our predictions that novices whose counterparts had a distributive reputation judged these counterparts' intentions in a more negative light and used more distributive and fewer integrative tactics than the control group novices. This resulted in lower joint gains in the distributive reputation condition than in the control condition. Notably, the more experienced negotiators were able to extract more individual value from the deal, but not when they had a reputation for being distributive. In other words, the fictitious distributive reputation prevented participants from capitalizing on their real negotiation expertise advantage.
Little is known about work relationships, other than mentoring relationships, that contribute to adult and career growth. A biographical interview study of 25 relationship pairs indicated that relationships with peers offer important alternatives to those with conventionally defined mentors. This study identifies types of peer relationships, highlights various enhancing functions these relationships provide, and shows the unique manner in which these relationships can support psychosocial and career development at every career stage.
Evidence suggests that possessing more qualifications than is necessary for a job (i.e., overqualification) negatively impacts job candidates’ outcomes. However, unfair discounting of women’s qualifications and negative assumptions about women’s career commitment imply that female candidates must be overqualified to achieve the same outcomes as male candidates. Across two studies, experimental and qualitative data provide converging evidence in support of this assertion, showing that gender differences in how overqualification impacts hiring outcomes are due to the type of commitment—firm or career—that is most salient during evaluations. Overqualified men are perceived to be less committed to the prospective firm, and less likely to be hired as a result, than sufficiently qualified men. But overqualified women are perceived to be more committed to their careers than qualified women because overqualification helps overcome negative assumptions that are made about women’s career commitment. Overqualification also does not decrease perceptions of women’s firm commitment like it does for men: supplemental qualitative and experimental evidence reveals that hiring managers rationalize women’s overqualification in a way they cannot for men by relying on gender stereotypes about communality and assumptions about candidates’ experiences with gender discrimination at prior firms. These findings suggest that female candidates must demonstrate their commitment along two dimensions (firm and career), but male candidates need only demonstrate their commitment along one dimension (firm). Taken together, differences in how overqualification impacts male versus female candidates’ outcomes are evidence of gender inequality in hiring processes, operating through gendered assumptions about commitment.
The article focuses on the development of a theory. A discussion is presented about steps involved in developing a theory, such as seeing which factors logically should be considered as part of the explanation of the social or individual phenomena of interest. The authors assert that authors developing theories are considering these factors, they should err in favor of including too many factors, recognizing that over time their ideas will be refined. The article presents information about the importance of sensitivity to the competing virtues of parsimony and comprehensiveness.
Studies on organizational paradoxes often explain paradox salience exogenously, as a state of latency awaiting detection. Based on social systems theory, this process study develops an explanation of paradox salience and latency beyond an actor's cognitive ability to think paradoxically. Such an explanation lies endogenously within the interactions of actors coping with paradox. Analysing the discussions of a hospital executive board during a change initiative reveals how factual, social and temporal references surface and submerge contradictory tensions. The proposed model for visibilizing and invisibilizing paradox explains salience and latency – even if individuals are aware of paradox – as integral to coping with paradox. As a paradox invisibilizes in an interaction it resurfaces somewhere along the line and thereby transforms within an organization.
This study uses national probability data from over 3,000 employers to examine why employers differ in their use of employee selection methods. Although the research on employee selection is voluminous, there have been only a handful of studies that look at the employers' selection decisions. In contrast to those other studies, we focus on characteristics of work as predictors of firms' decisions regarding selection practices. Beyond the relationship to the overall extent of selection methods used, we argue that specific work characteristics will affect the use of specific types of selection methods. We find, for example, that the greater the skill requirements of a position, the more likely that the establishment will use those types of selection methods that tap into the ability and skills of the applicants, namely, academic achievement and test performance. Discussion and suggestions for future research are offered.
This study explored the possibility that cognitive complexity can account for differences in the number of perceived dimensions with which individuals conceptualize pay satisfaction, as measured by the Pay Satisfaction Questionnaire. Using 2 independent samples of 1,969 certified teachers, it was found that mean group differences in cognitive complexity may account for the differences previously found in the literature. It was suggested that additional basic research be performed on how individuals conceptualize pay satisfaction and that more useful measures of cognitive complexity be developed.
Corporate governance has been a central focus of strategic management research, particularly the associations among governance structures, strategic leaders, and firm performance. Extant research, however, provides little evidence of systematic relationships in these areas. There are a series of theoretical/conceptual rationales suggesting that such relationships might be more pronounced in entrepreneurial firms. Accordingly, we provide an overview and synthesis of the entrepreneurship literature addressing the intersection of governance and strategic leadership with firm performance. The strongest relationships reflected in this literature are consistent with a resource dependence perspective of the firm. We conclude with several suggestions for advancing research in this important domain.
This article examines the effect of mergers and acquisitions (M&A) on the profile of merging firms' inventive activity. The authors conceive of the inventive process as a recombinant search, whose outcome can be characterized along two complementary dimensions, which define its profile: its depth of impact on subsequent inventions, and its breadth of impact across different scientific domains. The profile of firms' inventive activity depends on two main factors: the resources available to be recombined and the organizational incentives that guide the recombination process. In turn, these factors significantly depend on the upstream, technological resources available and on firms' downstream, product-market related assets. Importantly, both of these factors may change in the aftermath of M&A, as their specific institutional features facilitate the exchange and redeployment of upstream and downstream resources. The authors then discuss how variations in the profile of firms' inventive activity in the aftermath of an M&A reflect the diversity of upstream and downstream resources redeployed by the M&A deal. They test their hypotheses with a panel of firms from the US medical devices and photographic equipment industry. The study finds that diversity in merging firms' downstream resources exerts a positive impact on post-acquisition profile of inventive activities, whereas diversity in knowledge bases does not seem to exert a significant direct effect on the two qualitative dimensions of inventive activity considered. Yet, technological diversity displays a positive effect in deals characterized by high market relatedness.
Mischel's (1973, 1977) theory of situational strength has been used widely within the organizational sciences to help explain why contextual factors moderate predictor-criterion relationships. Situational strength interactions represent a particular type known as a restricted variance (RV) interaction (Cortina, Kohler, & Nielsen, 2015). The theory proposes that the strength of a given situation constrains or compresses the variance of the dependent variable, weakening its prediction from other variables. Other theories and models, such as self-determination theory and the job characteristics model, also make implicit references to variance compression based on the level of autonomy in a given situation and to the interactions that this compression creates. It is unclear, however, whether differences in strength (or degree of constraint) actually yield variance differences that are consistent with the theoretical framework. In this meta-analysis, we reviewed 132 articles that imply RV effects. 100 of which allowed for variance comparisons. We found that only a handful of authors explicitly connect their theoretical arguments and interaction hypotheses to changes in variance in the Introduction section of their articles. Moreover, our findings also reveal that, for the most part, variance differences between weak and strong situations are minimal. Where differences exist, they are often in the opposite of the expected direction (i.e., larger variance in strong situations). We discuss our findings and their theoretical and practical implications. We also provide recommendations for designing studies and testing for such interactions.
Although one might expect differences between manufacturing and service firms in pioneering advantages, the extent of these differences has not yet been investigated. This is the first cross-national study that compares such differences in nine countries/regions: the United States, the United Kingdom, Germany, Japan, China, Taiwan, Hong Kong, South Korea, and Singapore. We develop several hypotheses concerning the perceptions of managers of manufacturing firms and service firms regarding the benefits and post-entry risks of pioneering, and the cost and differentiation advantages accruing to the pioneering firm. We test the hypotheses with data from 2,419 firms representing all nine countries and both industrial sectors. We find that: (1) managers from all countries perceive pioneering to be associated with higher market share and/or profitability; (2) manufacturing firm managers perceive pioneering risks to be significantly more important than do service firm managers; (3) cost and differentiation advantages of pioneering are, for the most part, more significant to manufacturing than to service firm managers; (4) Western manufacturing firm managers perceive the cost advantages to be more important than Asian Pacific manufacturing firm managers. We conclude by presenting the managerial implications of our findings.
Grounded in an open systems perspective, we build and test new theory about how the kinds of industries in which an organization participates influence organizational affective tone and connect to workforce strain. We propose that the more an organization's activities lie in consumer-centric industries (e.g., service retail), the more positive and less negative the organization's affective tone. We connect consumer-centric industry participation and affective tone by explaining how personnel policies and organizational structure generate and sustain consistent positive and negative affect throughout an organization. Additionally, we examine the effects of organizational affective tone on workforce strain. The results of a survey-based study of 24,015 human resource managers, top management team members, and employees of 161 firms largely support our predictions. We discuss the implications of considering macro contextual factors for understanding affect in organizations.
Entrepreneurial imaginativeness is important for new venture ideation (the generation, evaluation, and development of ideas for new ventures), but its effects have only been examined at the individual level. Research suggests that new venture creation, including ideation, tends to involve multiple individuals, who are in the process of becoming a team for the first time. Given myriad possible combinations of individual imaginativeness in newly forming teams, we ask whether team configurations might vary in composition and performance when seeking to generate and develop new venture ideas. To answer this question, we conduct a field survey of 51 new venture teams in six different startup competitions. We find that various configurations among newly forming teams yield different new venture ideation performance outcomes and conclude by unpacking the theoretical and practical implications of our findings for new venture ideation, entrepreneurship, and team composition.
Previous studies and theoretical work suggest that the "escalation phenomenon" represents a syndrome of decision errors which tend to lock decision makers into a course of action. This paper develops an alternative model which implies that earlier studies may have observed decisions to recommit resources resulting from difficult dilemmas rather than a behavioral tendency to "throw good money after bad."
Situational judgment tests (SJTs) are personnel selection instruments that present job applicants with work-related situations and possible responses to the situations. There are typically 2 types of instructions: behavioral tendency and knowledge. Behavioral tendency instructions ask respondents to identify how they would likely behave in a given situation. Knowledge instructions ask respondents to evaluate the effectiveness of possible responses to a given situation. Results showed that response instructions influenced the constructs measured by the tests. Tests with knowledge instructions had higher correlations with cognitive ability. Tests with behavioral tendency instructions showed higher correlations with personality constructs. Results also showed that response instructions had little moderating effect on criterion-related validity. Supplemental analyses showed that the moderating effect of response instructions on construct validity was not due to systematic differences in item content. SJTs have incremental validity over cognitive ability, the Big 5, and over a composite of cognitive ability and the Big 5.
The strategy literature has been insightful in specifying the requirements for rents under uncertainty, but has concentrated less on how to meet those requirements. We argue that courage and imagination are essential drivers of such rents and that several streams in the entrepreneurship literature enlighten us as to the sources of those drivers: these are the perspectives of effectuation, entrepreneurial orientation, and strategic entrepreneurship. Although these perspectives apply to multiple organizational contexts, we suggest that their relevance to the sources of courage and imagination is especially acute in simple start-ups, dynamic high-tech innovators, and complex bureaucracies, respectively. Moreover, we call attention to other possible sources of entrepreneurial courage and imagination that have been underemphasized in the literature.
Work history information reflected in resumes and job application forms is commonly used to screen job applicants; however, there is little consensus as to how to systematically translate information about one's work-related past into predictors of future work outcomes. In this article, we apply machine learning techniques to job application form data (including previous job descriptions and stated reasons for changing jobs) to develop interpretable measures of work experience relevance, tenure history, and history of involuntary turnover, history of avoiding bad jobs, and history of approaching better jobs. We empirically examine our model on a longitudinal sample of 16,071 applicants for public school teaching positions, and predict subsequent work outcomes including student evaluations, expert observations of performance, value-added to student test scores, voluntary turnover, and involuntary turnover. We found that work experience relevance and a history of approaching better jobs were linked to positive work outcomes, whereas a history of avoiding bad jobs was associated with negative outcomes. We also quantify the extent to which our model can improve the quality of selection process above the conventional methods of assessing work history, while lowering the risk of adverse impact.
Effectuation was first proposed as an expert entrepreneur's decision-making framework under uncertainty, but the applications of effectuation beyond the condition of uncertainty have seen less attention. Using an agent-based simulation model, this paper investigates the effectiveness of effectuation relative to causation in uncertain and risky contexts. The simulation overcomes the shortcomings of think aloud protocols typically used in effectuation research. The results suggest that effectuation outperforms causation in both risky and uncertain contexts until the entrepreneur can predict the future correctly > 75% of the time. This suggests expanding the boundary of effectuation from uncertainty to whenever predicting the future is challenging.
Although the Type A behavior pattern (TABP) is typically considered a set of distinct components, most studies of TABP have used global measures, which collapse several components into a single index. These measures are inherently multidimensional and, as such, contain several conceptual and methodological problems. In this study, data from 240 executives were used to compare global and component TABP measures as predictors of mental and physical symptoms. Global measures included the Bortner scale, the Framingham scale, and the Jenkins Activity Survey. Component measures were constructed by recombining items from the global measures on the basis of results from previous confirmatory factor analyses (Edwards, Baglioni, & Cooper, 1990). Results indicate that the component measures were superior to the global measures in terms of number of relationships detected, interpretability, and total explanatory power. Implications for research and practice are discussed.
Research has shown that family motivation exerts an energizing effect on employee performance. Challenging this, we argue that family motivation is a double-edged sword with both an energizing and a debilitating effect on employee performance, depending on the performance criterion in question. Specifically, drawing upon self-determination theory and the hard work versus smart work framework, we hypothesize that family motivation is positively related to employee productivity via enhanced work effort (i.e., energizing effect). However, family motivation also stimulates employees to see their jobs as a means to gain financial support for their family, rather than an end in itself, which is associated with lower levels of creativity (i.e., debilitating effect). We further propose that employees' family motivation is higher when they experience higher levels of family financial pressure, and that financial pressure is more strongly related to family motivation for women than for men. We find support for our hypotheses in a sample of 187 low-wage, blue-collar workers and a sample of 439 relatively high-income, white-collar employees. We also conduct a qualitative study with 40 high-income employees; results provide a more nuanced understanding of the ways in which family motivation shapes perceptions of the job and subsequent behaviors and outcomes.
This study shows how the repertory grid methodology can be used to understand entrepreneurs' cognitive construction of business models and evidence of entrepreneurs' differential cognition of high–profit and low–profit business models. We show that entrepreneurs are more cognitively complex and more nuanced in constructing high–profit business models than low–profit business models. Furthermore, although they are perceived as meaningful, low–profit business models are characterized by relatively less clear cognitive constructions. This study suggests that the repertory grid technique may be useful for future research and entrepreneurship practice to understand the entrepreneurial cognition of business models.
Research in collaborative interorganizational relationships has typically focused on the value of these relationships to a specific supply chain partner. Furthermore, the phenomenon has rarely been explored in a global setting. Using primary data from 126 cross-border dyads, we investigate the influence of relational learning on the relationship performance of both the buyer and the supplier, testing the contention that both members (1) benefit from relational learning efforts and (2) enjoy equal pieces of the benefits pie. We find that three specific types of relational learning (information sharing, joint sensemaking, and knowledge integration) influence relationship performance, and that these dimensions of relational learning affect supply chain partners in different ways. We draw conclusions regarding the relative value of relational learning for both buyers and suppliers.
The logit and probit models have become critical parts of the management researcher's analytical arsenal, growing rapidly from almost no use in the 1980s to appearing in 15% of all articles published in Strategic Management Journal in 2005. However, a review of three top strategy journals revealed numerous areas in their use and interpretation where current practice fell short of ideal. Failure to understand how these models differ from ordinary least squares can lead researchers to misunderstand their statistical results and draw incorrect conclusions regarding the theory they are testing. Based on a review of the methodological literature and recent empirical papers in three leading strategy journals, this paper identifies four critical issues in their use: interpreting coefficients, modeling interactions between variables, comparing coefficients between groups (e.g., foreign and domestic firms), and measures of model fit. For each issue, the paper provides a background, a review of current practice, and recommendations for best practice. A concluding section presents overall implications for the conduct of research with logit and probit models, which should assist both authors and readers of strategic management research.
This study centres around the way in which firms can enhance alliance performance through the development of alliance capabilities. Whereas most research has focused on inter-firm antecedents of alliance performance, research on intra-firm antecedents pointing to prior experience and internal mechanisms to foster knowledge transfer has only recently emerged. As little is known about how firms develop alliance capabilities, this study aims to uncover how differences in sources of alliance capabilities explain performance heterogeneity. The data are derived from a detailed survey held among alliance managers and Vice-Presidents of 151 firms. The survey covers over 2600 alliances for the period 1997-2001. This study not only finds that alliance capabilities partially mediate between alliance experience and alliance performance, but also yields novel insights into the micro-level building blocks underlying the process of alliance capability development.
A considerable body of research utilizes large alliance databases (e.g., SDC, MERIT-CATI, CORE, RECAP, and BIOSCAN) to study interorganizational relationships. Understanding the strengths and limitations of these databases is crucial for informing database selection and research design. In this study I conduct an analysis of five prominent alliance databases. Focusing on technology alliances (those formed for the purposes of joint research or cross-technology transfer), I examine the databases' consistency of coverage and completeness, and assess whether different databases yield the same patterns in sectoral composition, temporal trends, and geographic patterns in alliance activity. I also replicate three previously published alliance studies to assess the impact of data limitations on research outcomes. The results suggest that the databases only report a fraction of formally announced alliances, which could have detrimental consequences for some types of research. However, the databases exhibit strong symmetries in patterns of sectoral composition, alliance activity over time, and geographic participation. Furthermore, the replications of previous studies yielded results that were highly similar to those obtained in the original studies. This study thus provides some reassurance that even though the databases only capture a sample of alliance activity, they may yield reliable results for many—if not all—research purposes. This information should help researchers make better-informed decisions about their choice of database and research design.
